St. Xavier's School, Bathinda is an affiliate of the registered Society of Pilar, Punjab - Haryana, a branch of the Society of Pilar, GOA. The latter runs a number of other social activities like dispensaries, grihini schools, orphanages, balwadis etc.

St. Xavier's School, Bathinda was opened in 1983, as a response to the pressing educational needs of the town of Bathinda and the surrounding villages. Originally an all-boys school, it opened its portals to girls in April 1990. The aim of the school is not only to prepare the students academically, but also to cater to the all-round development of the child, especially its moral and intellectual qualities. In this way, the school strives to draw out the best from each individual and enable its pupil to blossom into mature citizens of our country. The school is owned and managed by a religious group, which is a legitimate right provided for minority communities in our Constitution.

The school offers diversity of academic facilities. It has also introduced computer science, classical dance and music as part of its curriculum. The program of studies is in accordance with the syllabus laid down by the Central Board of Secondary Education, Delhi. While the medium of instruction is English, the school also lays special emphasis on teaching Punjabi, Hindi and Sanskrit as additional languages.
IMPORTANT INFORMATION REGARDING ADMISSION TO NURSERY AND LKG 2025-2026

1. Age Eligibility: The candidate seeking admission in the year 2025-2026 should follow the following age criteria:-

• Nursery – Candidate with DOB from 01.04.2021 to 31.03.2022

• LKG – Candidate with DOB from 01.04.2020 to 31.03.2021

The candidate will NOT be eligible for admission if he/she is NOT within the specified age limit.

2. Date of Birth Certificate: The original Date of Birth Certificate issued by the Municipal Corporation, Baptism Certificate (in case of Christian children only) along with a photostat copy duly attested by a Class A gazetted officer must be submitted at the time of verification of the documents. (Note: No Notary attested copy will be accepted)

3. Parents’ Qualification Certificates and Aadhaar Card Copy: The original qualification certificates and Aadhaar card of both the parents along with a Photostat copy duly attested by a Class A gazetted officer must be submitted at the time of verification of the documents. (Note: No Notary attested copy will be accepted)

4. Proof of residence of the parents: Submit a photostat copy of any one of the following documents duly attested by a Class A gazetted officer at the time of verification of the documents:-

a) Voter ID Card

b) Electricity Bill

c) Aadhaar Card

d) Ration Card

e) Passport

f) Rent Deed (If Staying on Rent)

Note: The original certificate will be returned to the parents immediately after the verification. Submit photocopy attested by Class A gazette officer only. No Notary attested copy will be accepted.

5. Name and other particulars: Fill in the particulars of the candidate correctly (i.e. name, parents’ name, date of birth). The date of birth filled in the form must tally with the one written in the D.O.B Certificate. All names should be spelt correctly in capital letters as they will be required in all the legal papers and CBSE records. No changes with regard to Date of Birth whatsoever will be entertained once the admission to Nursery/LKG or any subsequent classes are done.

6. Photographs: The latest photograph (taken not more than a month before the date of application) of the candidate is to be uploaded in the space provided for it. Individual photographs of the parents and a family photograph (showing both the parents and the candidate) must be uploaded in the space. All the photographs should be with red background and in JPG format with size less than 20KB. Kindly bring the first two photographs at the time of the verification of documents.

7. Selection: After having set aside, a quota of seats to be filled on the recommendation of the management, the school shall in its sole discretion have the right to grant priority in admission to persons fulfilling the following criteria:

The children of Staff Members of the school will be considered for admissions provided other basic criteria for admission to the school are fulfilled.
Being a Christian Minority institution, children belonging to that minority community will be considered for admission provided they meet the other requirements of the institution.
Other applications will be considered for admissions thereafter, by the picking up of lots.
Once admission has been granted, all formalities including payment of the stipulated fees must be completed within the time assigned, failing which it will be deemed that the claim for admission has been forfeited.
The Management of the School reserves all rights of admission or rejection and is not bound to give reasons for admission or rejection of any particular candidate.
8. Draw of Lots:

Draw of lots to be held online.
The Registration Number of the candidates whose slip is drawn will be announced during the draw.
9. Rejection of Form: A registration form is liable to be rejected incase of incomplete or incorrect information and no representation will be entertained thereafter.

Caution: The School does not accept any donation for admissions. Parents should be aware of third parties collecting money on behalf of the School and making false claims of procuring admission. If the parents enter into any transaction with such parties, they will be doing so at their own risk and the School shall not be responsible for it.

10. Regarding Enquiry: In case you have a query or need any help, kindly email us at contactsaintxaviersbathinda@gmail.com. The relevant queries will be replied as soon as possible.

11. Registration Fee: Rs.1000/- is to be paid online and is nonrefundable.

12. Fee Structure: For fee structure, kindly refer to the school website www.xavierbathinda.com

13. Acknowledgement Receipt: Once the online payment is done successfully, you will get an Acknowledgement Receipt in a new window stating the date and time of submission of documents.

Kindly print this Acknowledgement Receipt and bring it on the date and time of the submission of documents in the Junior Wing of the School. Please retain the slip to check your ward’s selection status. No selection list will be displayed in the school.

14. In case of a single parent/adopted child, the following documents will have to be furnished:

Divorce: Divorce Decree
Separated: Legal Separation Document
Widow/Widower: Death Certificate of the spouse
Adoption: Adoption Decree
The above legal documents must clearly mention the name of the custodian of the child.

Important:

Only one form per candidate will be accepted.
Duplicate forms will be rejected.
School does not provide any transportation.
Incase you fail to turn up on the day of verification of documents, you will not be entertained later.
15. Regarding NEP 2020: The school will not be responsible if any candidate is found underage during any stage of schooling as per the New Pedagogical & Curricular Structure/Age Policy according to the NEP 2020.

The implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 may require additional resources and expenses for St. Xavier’s School. These expenses may include, but are not limited to, the acquisition of new educational materials, infrastructure improvements, and increased staffing.

The school may need to implement a reasonable additional fee to offset these costs and ensure the successful implementation of NEP 2020.FEE NORMS
Fee charged by the school is as per the norms fixed by the state government. It is in commensurate to the infrastructure and facilities offered by the school.
FEE RULES
Initial payment at the time of admission is to be paid in cash in the Bank / Online.
Caution money is to insure the school against non-payment or irregular payment of fees and other dues. After deduction of due arrears, the caution money will be refunded when the pupil leaves the school.
A pay-in slip booklet is issued for depositing the fees with the bank. This booklet shall be collected by parents/guardian from the office of the school at the beginning of the academic year, or at the time of admission in the case of new entrant. Parents should ensure that the name, the allotted admission number and class/section and Roll No. of the student are correctly entered in the pay - in slip in order to avoid any inconvenience. The school does not stand responsible for payment not credited to the school account due to inadequate/erratic entries in the pay - in - slip. Maintain the fee slip for the entire academic year and present it on every parent teacher meet day for verification.
Fee once paid are not refundable.
The amount of fee and other charges payable by the students and the mode and time of payment is duly mentioned in the fee booklet issued to each student every year. Parents are advised to adhere to the schedule of payment of fees and charges, strictly. Penalty will be imposed for the delay in payment of fee.
Fee and other charges will have to be paid as long as a pupil's name is on the roll.
Failure to pay the fee, dues and other charges before the commencement of the examinations may debar a student from it. In all case, the school management shall withhold the result and the concerned student will not be eligible for promotion to the next class unless the dues are cleared up within the time stipulated by the school management.
A fee will be charged for any extract from the school records.
The school management reserves the right to modify or enhance to the minimum of 10%, the amount of fee and other charges annually. The said modification/enhancement shall become due and payable with prospective effect
Parents or guardians wishing to withdraw their children or wards from school must notify their intention to the Principal in the form provided in the school diary. The transfer certificate will be issued within 7 days after such notice.
One calendar month’s notice will have to be given for the withdrawal of the child from the school. However, full fee for the quarter will be charged.
All dues must be cleared and books and other school property items returned, before the child is withdrawn and transfer certificate obtained.
Duplicate copies of T.C. may be issued on payment of Rs. 50/-.
The management reserves to itself the right to dismiss any student.
The Principal is empowered to effect the withdrawal of a pupil or to remove the name of the pupil from the rolls of the school if, in his opinion, the progress of the pupil or conduct is dissatisfactory or whose parents/guardians show no interest in the progress of their wards. Immorality, insubordination, contempt of wilful damage of property and physical assault is always enough reason for immediate dismissal. Prolonged absence which is not adequately justified or explained, may be considered reason enough for dismissal.
The management may require the withdrawal of any student when satisfied that such a step is necessary in the interest of the school.
Any pupil taking tuition from St. Xavier's School teacher before seeking the written permission from the Principal, will be dismissed.
Serious violation of the rules, regulations and the discipline of the school is punishable including expulsion from school.
Immediate expulsion or even rustication will follow, if the continued presence of the defaulting student is damaging the physical and moral well-being of other students of the school, or if the violation is punishable seriously at the board level.
A student involved in any incident even outside the school which brings discredit to the Institution, either because of unpleasant nature or inviting criminal or legal action by police or the court will be dismissed from school without enquiry.
A student found in the possession of material for unfair means during the examination will be dismissed.
1. Promotion from one standard to another is made at the end of the School. academic year, on the basis of the child's performance in the whole year's work. The aggregate of the whole year is taken into consideration for promotion as well as for grading. It also depends upon :

Regularity in attendance.
Regularity and quality of day - to - day participation in the class.
Opinion of teachers in the class.
Written work and projects assigned by the subject teachers.
Office records.
2. To be eligible for promotion, the child must secure at least D grade in the aggregate in each subject in the primary section and D grade in the high school in each subject.

3. KG to X

Marks Range	Grade	Grade Point
91-100	A1	10.0
81-90	A 2	9.0
71-80	B1	8.0
61-70	B2	7.0
51-60	C 1	6.0
41-50	C2	5.0
33-40	D	4.0
21-32	E1	-
00-20	E2	-
4. In case, a pupil is absent in any examination, he/she will not be re-examined under any circumstances. In such cases, promotion of the deserving pupils will be decided on the strength of the examinations they have already appeared for the whole year's performance.

5. Absence from one or more subjects involves a loss of marks for the subjects and excludes the pupils from being reckoned in order of merit in the examination and from a merit certificate.

6. The answer - script of the Final Exam, will neither be shown to students nor to parents. However, in special cases, the Principal may permit to review the final exam answer - script on payment of Rs. 100/- per subject in the school office along with the written application, within three days of the declaration of results. Subsequently, no such plea shall be entertained. The parent/child shall not be associated in the process or review and the decision of the Principal in this matter is final and binding on all the parties. The Principal is competent to adopt any procedure he deems fit. In any case the answer - script will not be issued / shown to the applicants.
Pupils must be punctual at the beginning of the day, for all subjects classes and activities.
Attendance for morning assembly is compulsory. At the end of the assembly, students shall proceed in silence to their classrooms.
For every absence, a written statement, signed by the Parent/Guardian is required on the day the pupil returns. If a student is absent for more than 3 days for reasons of ill health a certificate from a doctor is required stating illness and fitness.
A student who arrives late will be required to bring an explanatory note from Parent/Guardian.
All explanatory notes for absence/late arrival should be handed over to the class teacher. No one who is 5 times late or has been absent for 3 days and over will be admitted to the class, without the permission of the Principal.
During the vacation period, pupils are not granted leave. Prior permission should be sought for absence from the school for any reason or planned in advance.
Students who are regularly sick and fall short of the required 75% of attendance may be asked to leave the school on grounds of physical unfitness.
Students will not be allowed to leave school early unless Parents/Guardian present a written note to the office. Explicit permission by the Principal is necessary.
In case of infectious disease, the parents are required to submit a medical certificate to the effect that child is fit to rejoin.
Attendance on the first day of the school, after vacations is absolutely essential. Pupils who do not join school on the 1 st day will be marked absent for next 5 days.
Any unscheduled holidays may be made good by the school without prior intimation to Parents/Guardian.
The School is affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education, New Delhi, and prepares the students for the "All India Secondary School Examination".
The School provides for the study of the following subjects-English Language, English Literature, Hindi Language, Hindi Literature, Mathematics, Sciences, Social Sciences, Punjabi, Moral Science, General Knowledge, Art & Craft, Computers and EVS.
Sports, Games, S.U.P.W., Music, Dance, Debates, Declamations, and Dramatics etc.:- all form an important part of the Curriculum.

Compile all this info infto a good knoledge base structure for my ai chat bto